the
world content creators influencers they
have multiple titles but these are the
people who rule powerful algorithms and
have millions following their Trends
initially seen as prin Setters in
lifestyle and entertainment influencers
are increasingly playing a significant
role in shaping public opinion their
ability to reach millions of followers
in a short time give them a unique
platform to disseminate information
raise awareness and sometimes even shape
the narrative some members of the media
use their platforms to push their own
personal bias to push their own personal
agenda to control exactly what people
think this is extremely dangerous to our
democracy majority of you are very easy
to manipulate social media is
dramatically transformed how we receive
and perceive information about wars and
conflicts with real time unfiltered
updates becoming Norm
this has been particularly evident since
the Arab Spring when the phrase emerged
that this revolution won't be televised
but tweeted it marked a pivotal change
on how conflicts are reported and
followed showing social media is no
longer a tool only for communications
but also one for
mobilization as social media has evolved
it's been joined by platforms like
Snapchat Instagram and Tik Tok adding
New Dimensions to how Wars are perceived
documented and shared even US president
hopefuls are paying heed on even blanket
bans on apps such as Tik Tok we really
do need to ban Tik Tok once and for
all the war in Gaza is a clear example
of this new social media Dynamic one
which we'll explore over the next half
hour bombing Hospital okay now tell them
there's an Escape Route South to Egypt
attention Palestinians head south to
Egypt okay now bomb the Escape Route
Nicole and rathborne talk to eler
they say for the heart of hearing you
have to shout the loudest and for the
people who are unable to see you have to
draw big figures what you do is taking
war and misery and turning it into
something funny let's start with you
rwan why do you do it well uh I think
first of all I have a spine and I
understand basic moral
principles and
I think
that it's a pretty cut and dry uh issue
a pretty pretty obvious thing that's
happening in Gaza and I want to use um
you know my knowledge my whatever skills
or talents I might possess to call
attention to what's happening because
it's awful Nicole you've been doing this
for a while you do political satire uh
why have you taken a real Focus onto
what is happening in Gaza my reason is
simple and I'm going to start by saying
comedy is taken seriously when politics
are a joke I'm saying this
because when we do comedy and we're
called unsensitive is a big and very
large group of people that they don't
know what's happening so satire and
comedy makes them understand a little
bit better about what we are trying to
say that's a very good point that you
touched upon insensitivity uh that's
something that people think and
especially when you talk about something
a conflict which is so steeped in
controversy where they're very uh you
know opinionated sides on both ends uh
how do you configure that this is
insensitive and this is not because
we're not referring I'm not referring to
a public that already knows what's
happening and for example we had a large
conversation today by saying when
something very sensitive is happening
you cannot post comedy but I'm not
talking to to a public that already
knows the public who already knows
supports my content but I'm having this
kind of I'm calling them like snowflakes
that they don't know what's happening
outside and uh we have this generation
that simply in Western World um they
have no idea they live in a bubble so
for them to understand any kind of very
sensitive subject I have to come at them
with a with a way to make them
understand at least the humor or the
jokes and eventually they will
understand the the issue itself because
I receive a lot of support from Arab
countries but they know and they help my
videos to have visibility but that's
it's not my Target because I'm I'm
speaking numbers and facts for example
uh Spain a country that I I know very
well uh it's divided in 20% people that
know 20% people that they are afraid of
speaking and 60% that they don't know
how to put Palestine on the map right so
you're connecting the Middle East to
Europe r one you bring it to North
America you've come here from New York
and I see that you actually did did a
did a skit on just walking in the street
tell me how how did that idea came about
and why did you do it uh yeah I come
from the United States it's the global
superpower I see it uh what's happening
in Gaza as sort of sort of an outgrowth
of us
imperialism
um and there's just a cartoonish sort of
image of the Middle East in in America
and um like Nicole you know I'm
satirizing that and
um so I think you're referring to me
walking around in Doha and U sort
of making it as if I'm seeing Hamas
everywhere uh but that's sort of the
image that you get from the Israeli
propaganda system so I'm just sort of
showcasing
how silly that is and how idiotic it is
it's not insensitive what we're doing
what's insensitive is the atrocity
that's happening we're merely calling
attention to what's happening and we're
trying to do it in a way like Nicole was
saying we're trying to communicate these
ideas we're trying to spread the message
we want to be effective um we're we're
going up against a you know a trillion
dollar PR industry uh you know and we're
trying to do that with uh with Tik Tok
videos and I don't always do satirical
stuff I mean even in this even in my
satirical sketches there I like I I
research them you know I try to you know
impart a lot of education and history
into the conflict that I don't think
you're going to get from corporate media
you know uh from Western media
especially especially in the United
States what was the response like
because you reaching a demographic like
Nicole said which doesn't know uh what's
going on so how did people react to it
because you you're seen as somebody who
who does things that are funny and now
you're changing gear and you're bringing
something very serious into the equation
see I don't see myself as like a
comedian or or funny necessar neily I
think there is some sort of humor in my
personality and what I do but I I more
so there's a seriousness behind it and
it's meant to be educational you know
I'm trying we're trying to combat
propaganda uh so yeah I I received U
mixed uh I mean any anytime you create
something that's I guess a video that's
sort of controversial you're going to
get mixed reviews about it you know
people want want me to stop or they want
to they they issue death threats or or
but a lot of people do get the message
they do see what what I'm trying to do
and and understand the truth in it and
so I'm just sharing the message as best
as I can and the people that's going to
it's going to affect that's how it's
going to affect them I mean I can't
really say anything more about that
about how it's going to be received I
think a lot of people don't realize that
doing a video on Tik Tok or YouTube or
Facebook or Twitter would get you death
death threats you you alluded to that
are you is that a real issue are you
seeing death threats does it affect you
uh it doesn't affect me in in the sense
that I'm going to stop or uh you know
anything like that but uh yeah I mean I
I get a lot of messages or
emails uh or
comments and I understand that you know
if if people are indoctrinated uh by you
know the us propaganda system for many
years that they're going to not hear my
message and and think well of it so uh
but I think it's just part of it I mean
so I just I don't I don't think it's I
don't take it too seriously or too
personally I guess I should say right
and you've been receiving the same
things right threats uh abuse and a lot
of it why do you think that it is
important for you to accept it and Carry
On and why is it your work the work that
you do is important if I don't have a
passion for what I'm doing I cannot last
in a trend by doing two three videos and
just to feel good with myself if you
have a passion you have to have um
consistence and um you cannot see so
many videos with butchered kids and so
much blood and so much pain and not just
go crazy so you need to have a passion
in order to do this kind of content and
you need to understand that after maybe
crying because you see so much pain you
have to uh go with your purpose and with
your mission to make people understand
and I'm not making only comedy it's a
it's a political satire because when
we're talking about Palestine and
everything is happening we have to touch
subjects like uh democracy and what
democracy means and how customiz uh
customized is um um according to the
skin color to the rights to the country
to the religion about the fake freedom I
mean I'm European they say I'm free but
if I protest for Palestine in Paris I
get arrested if I speak against Israel
because it they are committing genocide
I'm I'm I'm speaking against the Jews
and this narrative you cannot even
imagine they say they're Democratic they
have freedom they have the freedom to
choose their own customized dictators
because how can we think about the
politics like diapers in Europe you have
to change them and for the same reason
so
if you have the right and that power to
choose your own politicians why don't
you use the same power to be careful who
you're choosing and their politics
outside your the borders of your country
so this is what I don't like they like
to King Kong their chest that we're free
we have democracy in Arab world people
they don't understand they don't know
they don't know that all the education
the first alphabet came from Syria the
oldest capital for example they don't my
country Spain 800 years of Arabic
domination of oma they left a culture
behind and Europe when they went to
other countries they left destruction
and that's the difference so the two
things that I want to touch on is that
the words that you use you you
repeatedly call it genocide one how did
you reach that conclusion and two both
of you talk about frustration from
corporate media is that frustration only
in the people of your age group of your
backgrounds or are you seeing that in a
wider audience which might be a lot
younger and who's using the social media
a lot more than than than the older
generation my reference to corporate
media is just the fact that they are uh
completely invested in serving their
constituents and those constituents are
not the people of
countries uh they're not workingclass
people they're you know Elites whatever
you want to call them and they uh have a
separate agenda and uh so we're we're
battling that I mean they they don't
want people to know the truth uh it's
the Israel Hamas War it's not the
genocide of the Gaza Strip or it's not
the illegal occupation of uh perpetrated
by Israel you'll never hear these
phrases in Western media uh as far as I
can tell i' haven't seen that but that's
what it is I mean these people are being
ethnically cleansed from their own land
and yes are being genocided and um you
know it's we feel hopeless we feel
helpless but what can we do uh so I'm a
teacher I'm a you know I feel like my
skill set is to communicate and uh
articulate ideas and spread messages and
so that's what I'm that's what I'm doing
what about the audience I'm I want I'm
more interested in to see where do you
think your message is reverberating with
who is who's listening to it who's
watching it who liking it and spreading
it and where are you getting feedback
from so ideally I mean for anybody who
is in the business of getting their
message across you'd want to hear back
on well whether that message was
received I don't really pay attention to
those things I'm one you know I'm using
a social media platform uh that is very
popular uh this is what we have now uh
and you know decades
ago you didn't have content creators you
didn't have singular influencers
it was more important for media
corporations to set the agenda but like
they were saying earlier today it's like
the influencers the content creators are
now becoming more and more powerful in
this age of social media where you can
pick up your phone and you can become
the media itself and I think that's a
powerful tool and I want to use that to
you know promote working class values
and principles and to call out you know
injustices social injustices I mean how
many people in the world know that
Israel did under international law
Israel has no right to defend itself how
many people know that you know Hamas is
an armed resistance group struggling for
human rights uh you know there's two
social
groups in question here one has human
rights and one does not have human
rights but Hamas is classified as a
terrorist group by the European Union
States Israel right because it's
terrorism when poor vulnerable
defenseless people try to fight back
against a militant police state but when
that when that rich militant police
state bombs a defenseless population
that's called democracy promotion you
know there's it's just a double standard
at all times I I don't know what to do
except for saiz it you know um because
that's that's what we can do I mean I
don't so Nicole double standards and
hypocrisy is is something that keeps
coming up in these conversations we were
sitting with you with a wider group
earlier as well uh why do you think it
is important to highlight it and paint
it to the world as such uh and and why
does it exist because people they don't
want to see their own defects nobody
wants to hear when I'm telling them that
they have double standards or that they
are cruel they don't have a heart or
they don't have Humanity nobody wants to
hear that nobody wants to hear the fact
that I'm going to give you an example
every time I go to a cinema I have this
publicity before donate for people in
Somalia or any other country they need
food at the end of the movie Nobody
donated anything because people they
don't like to feel guilty and that's why
uh on the contrary of um Andrew I really
like to study my public because we live
in a world where everybody wants to feel
a victim nobody wants to be the villain
and they constantly constantly need I
mean we live in a world where I cannot
say I I have to believe that God is
nonbinary or I cannot say Merry
Christmas because people feel offended I
mean they are going on the streets with
those things a very vulnerable and very
sensitive Community if today they're not
marching for the penguins in Antarctica
for not having gluten-free bread and I
have to teach those people they need a
villain I don't have a problem in giving
them a villain I don't I targeting them
actually because if I go with emotions
I'm going to feed that kind of um ego
that they have everybody's emotional
everybody's a victim well when you give
them a villain who's telling them what's
the issue in the world they're going to
study what I'm talking about just to
come at me and tell me you're wrong so
actually I'm doing the same thing that
Western media does so I'm making them
very outraged because
honestly um all the the phones got
smarter and the people the other way
around so the all those devices are
really smart and we need to understand
that those devices are made by by a
human brain it cannot be smarter than us
but you know are lazy and everybody
likes to complain and everybody wants to
have this syndrome of I'm a victim don't
worry I can give you a villain but a
villain who will tell you the truth I'm
going to make you so outraged that
you're going to come at me and you're
going to study what I'm talking about
just to contradict me but you're going
to find out in a process that what I was
telling was truth so this is actually
the same thing that they were feeding us
but the only difference that I'm not
using fake news so it's good I'm
actually proud that they are giving me
good examples and when they try to uh
ban to to shut us up to censor us I feel
proud if they don't do this that means
I'm not doing anything right we are not
trying to shut down the Israeli
propaganda no we are just laughing it
it's it reached to a point to be funny
we're not trying to shut them up no no
come at us show us what what what more
you can do so when they're trying to
censor me that means I'm doing something
great I'm not going to go being a victim
no because I started I don't mind being
the villain just for them to understand
so yeah I study my public quite well
let's talk about the tools that you use
uh social media is ever expanding uh
their new apps new avenues of uh of
getting your message across but you are
using one particular application which
seems to be getting through also uh
making a lot of people angry including
the United States government which is
talking about banning this particular
app why is it and why is that
particularly your choice of medium it's
a good question I think what I've
learned is that Tik Tok is a a very
powerful editing software
and it's highly engaging um and you know
I don't know it's just it's it's the
thing that people are using now and uh
there's never been something kind of
like that um
but yeah I find that uh I don't know Tik
Tok is just it's not like I
was I always banned on Tik Tok I was
releasing music videos and I was already
uh they I was making like you know uh
political songs and then they banned me
and then I didn't like Tik Tok for for a
while but then uh I just figured I'd
start talking about it because that's
sort of how the the app works you know
it works better when you're you know
looking at a camera and speaking and I I
had no idea that I was going to catch on
and I mean this is I'm the the page that
I started is only a few months old you
know but it's somehow you know my
message was you know um became popular
and I'm just kind of going with it and
why do you think that that particular
choice of medium is important for you or
do you think that it is you have to use
all of those platforms to get your
message across I'm using all of them um
I don't know if Tik Tok I mean uh has
some political thing behind to support I
mean it supported a lot but it banned
also a lot so it's just uh funny to see
politicians like Nikki Haley being so
outrage and saying that one hour of Tik
Tok is turning our teenagers 177% more
radicals like why are you so scared I
mean you have all the media you can fact
check everything we can get banned
because we don't have the facts like Al
jazer can fact some something and they
can prove is true I I'm just Nicole why
are you so afraid of me and the masses
are important it's the first time in a
long time that a massive group of people
especially how we call it the Gen Z
generation the the new generation that
they are speaking and then imagine the
frustration of paid propaganda to be
taken down by so many many teenagers
because we know that they paid millions
and billions in apps in Google in
YouTube and actually I don't mind the
territory if it's Instagram or Facebook
or Twitter I I don't care I just do the
same what I need to say because my soul
is burning and just take it I translate
I can translate in all the languages I
know and just who wants to listen will
listen but I I'm doing my job before I
know exactly who I'm talking to and I
know exactly who going to get hurt and
people have to understand that when they
talk about this uh war and this
situation it's not only only about the
conflict itself we cannot even call it
the conflict I mean the hypocrisy in
Europe oh Russia and Ukraine I I I hate
any type of violence but there are two
armies fighting we don't see two armies
here we saw mosad in movies that they
are very strong the best army nuclear
weapons against
who against who they have they're kids
with rocks and and they they have Hamas
that they don't have the same Weaponry
so we cannot talk about the conflict so
when you see all this oh all the if they
have blue eyes and they're blonde come
to Europe you're educated but no if they
are Arabs oh
careful and and that's the thing it
doesn't matter how you send the message
if you know exactly how to and you have
to study the other side as well because
they did a good job for a very long time
my last question to you is not just to
content creators but serious
broadcasters as well the war in Gaza has
gone on for weeks uh it's not because of
the DAR of information it's because of
the actions that are deliberately being
taken are you making a difference and if
you're not what's driving you what's
driving me I mean like I said I it's
it's just having a spine and having
basic moral understandings having
critical thinking and I guess you could
say just a commitment to uh principles
uh basic principles what about Unico I
have to say that Western world really
failed Palestine and I want to represent
here the Western World by saying that
I'm really sorry and I have to wash the
scenes by saying that if we didn't do it
until today or until 7th of October and
we start doing this uh we have to
apologize first and uh we have to we
have to understand that
if if you don't have a heart it it takes
just a heart you don't need anything
else you don't need religion you don't
need politic views you don't need
anything but a heart to understand those
things so what drives me it's I had rage
and now I have passion because I think
most of the countries of the world they
are ruled by Israel but Palestine we
think we're free in Palestine when
Palestine freed us and showed us what
human value values we lack this is what
happened actually they're suffering and
they are dying but they liberated an
entire world and that for me is the most
important thing and it's not enough
anymore for me it's not enough to hop on
a trend and feel good and it's not
enough not saying that there are big
voices in this world and they're saying
we're not obliged to talk yes you are we
are seeing your movies we are buying
your music we are calling you
influencers we trust you so yes people
are obliged to talk about those things
because it only takes a heart so this is
my message if I have to condemn
something today I condemn people who are
silent and I'm really sorry from Western
world that we failed them for such a
long time rathon and Nicole thank you
very much for talking to alday thank you
thank you for having
me